1: latpoints
In addition to plotting and showing the selected T0, R0, etc data points, "latpoints" also generates "latptdata" files that contain these points and the data that they represent (e.g. the position or velocity values at the times T0, R0, etc).

The generation of this file is automatic, and will have a name that indicates which record it came from, e.g. for zach4.lab, the file will be "latpts_zach4.mat"

usage: [latptdata] = latpoints;

NOTE: you do not need to specify an output variable if you do not wish.  The option exists if you want to place the results directly into an analysis program such as "latstats" instead of reading in a file.


2: catlatpts
Use "catlatpts" to concatenate the latptdata files.  When you run it, you are given the opportunity to select an existing concatenated points file (i.e. one where you have already added one or more sets of data), or create a new one.  You will then be asked to select single latptdata files (e.g. "latpts_zach4.mat") to add to the concatenated file.  

You can add as many as you would like, and if you select one that has already been included, the program will ask if you want to replace the previously added version, or if you should cancel the current selection.

When you are done, you will be prompted to save the file of concatenated latpoint data, e.g., "latpts_zach_all.mat"


3: ptselect
Use "ptselect" to sort and select the data according to the values/range of one of the variables.  The variables include the ones that were entered into the basic data-entry spreadsheet, as well as ones that are calculated from those basic entries (e.g., SAClat, SPlat, etc).

When you run the program, it will list all the variables it knows, and will prompt you to select the one you wish to work with.  You will then select a minimum value for the range of data you are interested in using, and then a maximum value.  The program will then extract that sorted subset of data (the selected variable and all the others as well, reordered in correspondence with the sorted variable), and will prompt you to save the data into a file.

usage: [selectedpoints] = ptselect(latptdata);

NOTE: you do not need to specify an output variable if you do not wish.  The option exists if you want to place the results directly into an analysis program such as "latstats" instead of reading in a file.  If you do not specify an input variable, you will instead be prompted to select a latpoints file.  You can use either an individual latpoints file (e.g., "latpts_zach4.mat") or a concatenated points file (e.g., "latpts_zach_all.mat").


4: latstats
This program will let you read in a lat points file, either for an individual data record (e.g. "latpts_zach4.mat"), a concatenated file (e.g. "latpts_zach_all.mat") or one you created using "ptselect".

When you run "latstats" you will be presented with a list of all the known variables (e.g. "T0", "R0", "SAClat", "overlap", etc), and asked which one should be used as the X data.  You will then be asked to select Y data, one variable at a time.

The program will then prompt you for what order polynomial regression you want to fit to the first set of Y data.  It will plot the result for your inspection, allowing you to try different fits.  Once you are satisfied with the fit, it will repeat the operation for each successive Y data set until all have been fit.  It will then present you with a final plot of the data.  You can modify the legends, drag text items around, etc. using the graphing tools.  To modify the text strings in the legend, just double-click on a string and wil will allow you to make your changes.